Rewrite tutorial on coroutine, triggers, tasks, concurrency, and synchronization primitives (#5589)
cocotb/cocotb: docs/source/scheduler.rst

* Inter-task synchronization with :class:`~cocotb.triggers.Lock`.

What it will *not* cover is any simulation-specific or testing-specific features such as getting values from a signal, or passing and failing tests.

Now before we can get into concurrency, we need to cover the building blocks of cocotb's concurrency system,
the first being :term:`!coroutines`.

**********
Coroutines
**********

Background
==========

What is a coroutine?
--------------------

A coroutine is a special type of function that can be paused and resumed at certain points in its execution.
When a coroutine is paused, it yields control to another coroutine, allowing other code to run.
When a coroutine is resumed, it continues executing from where it left off.

If this sounds a lot like a Python generator, that's because it is.
In fact, Python's built-in :term:`coroutines <python:coroutine>` are built on top of :term:`generators <python:generator>`.

.. note::
    Previous versions of cocotb provided a way to turn generators into coroutines.
    This was necessary for Python versions before 3.5, which did not have native support for coroutines.

>     This feature was removed as native Python coroutines are much faster and easier to use.

Reviewer: "Out with the old", even this note, IMO.

>     This feature was removed as native Python coroutines are much faster and easier to use.

Author: ```suggestion
```

       await some_async_operation()
       # Happens after `some_async_operation` completes.
       print("World")

Why do I need coroutines?
-------------------------

Looking at the example above, you might be asking why we need coroutines at all.
It looks like it could be a regular :keyword:`!def` function and non- :keyword:`!await`\ ed function call.

There are two main reasons why we need coroutines:

1. We can :keyword:`await` things that aren't coroutines.
2. We can run multiple coroutines concurrently.

In terms of cocotb, the first point is necessary to support :keyword:`await`\ ing :term:`triggers <trigger>`,
which are not coroutines but :term:`awaitable objects <awaitable>` that represent events in the simulation.

.. code-block:: python

    @cocotb.test
    async def my_test(dut):
        await RisingEdge(dut.clk)  # awaitable...
        assert not inspect.iscoroutine(RisingEdge(dut.clk))  # but not a coroutine

We will cover cocotb's concurrency features in later sections.

Using Coroutines
================

Coroutine functions support all the same features that regular Python functions support.
They can take arguments, return values, and raise exceptions.

> The only difference is they can use :keyword:`!await` expressions while regular functions cannot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only difference is that they can use :keyword:`!await` expressions while regular functions cannot.
```
?

.. note::
    That is not a license to change all your functions to coroutine functions,

>     there is overhead associated with creating coroutines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    That is not a license to change all your functions to coroutine functions -
    there is overhead associated with creating coroutines.
```

The other main difference is that coroutine functions, like generator functions, do not run the function body immediately upon calling;
nor does calling the function (without the :keyword:`!await`) block and return the function result.
Instead, calling a coroutine function returns a :term:`python:coroutine` object, which is an :term:`awaitable`.
The coroutine function's body starts only after that coroutine object is :keyword:`!await`\ ed.

.. code-block:: python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 9
```
(I hope the 9 is correct.)

        ret = await my_coroutine(3, 4)  # ret == 7
        try:
            await my_coroutine(5, 6)
        except ValueError as e:
            assert str(e) == "Too big!"

Looking at that example, notice the :keyword:`!await` keyword appears between the assignment and the function call.
This is because :keyword:`!await` is an *expression* that takes an awaitable object.
The result of the expression is the result of the awaitable.
For coroutine functions, this means the function return value or an exception if one is raised.

To best visualize this, consider the following equivalent code below.

.. code-block:: python

    @cocotb.test
    async def my_test(dut):
        coro = my_coroutine(3, 4)
        ret = (await coro)

********************
:class:`!Trigger`\ s
********************

We mentioned earlier that one of the main reasons we need coroutines is to :keyword:`!await` things that aren't other coroutines.
In cocotb, that thing is :term:`!triggers <trigger>`; they are another building block of cocotb's concurrency system.

cocotb provides triggers that represent various events in the simulation, such as a signal changing value or a certain amount of time passing.

> And it also provides some triggers that represent user-defined events in Python, such as an :class:`~cocotb.triggers.Event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also provides some triggers that represent user-defined events in Python, such as an :class:`~cocotb.triggers.Event`.
```

For example, a :class:`RisingEdge(dut.clk) <cocotb.triggers.RisingEdge>` trigger represents the next change in value on the ``dut.clk`` signal to a ``1``.
When you :keyword:`!await` a trigger, the current coroutine is paused until the event represented by the trigger occurs in the simulation,
at which point the coroutine is resumed.

.. code-block:: python

    @cocotb.test
    async def my_test(dut):
        print(get_sim_time("ns"))  # 0 ns, the start of the test.
        await RisingEdge(dut.clk)  # This coroutine is paused until the next rising edge of dut.clk.
        print(get_sim_time("ns"))  # 10 ns, the time of the rising edge of dut.clk.

A gotcha to watch out for is that if an event represented by the trigger will never occur,

> then the coroutine will be paused indefinitely and your test will hang.

Reviewer: Maybe mention/link to timeouts here?

Author: Added timeouts to the test deco in the example above and referenced it.

The only common API that all :term:`!triggers` share is that they are :term:`awaitable objects <awaitable>`.
We will be covering several particular triggers relating to concurrency later in this document,

> so here is a table of the most commonly used simulation triggers which we won't be covering in detail in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so here is a table of the most commonly used simulation triggers which we *won't* be covering in detail in this document.
```

| | :class:`~cocotb.triggers.ReadWrite`                | | Resume when the simulation timestep moves to the *read-write* phase                     |
| | :class:`~cocotb.triggers.NextTimeStep`             | | Resume when the simulation timestep moves to the *next time step*                       |
+------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _concurrency_theory:

***********
Concurrency
***********

As testbenches get more complex, you will very quickly run into the need to do multiple things at the same time:

* drive inputs while monitoring outputs
* check expected results while generating stimulus
* wait indefinitely for potential error conditions while doing everything else

This is where concurrency comes in.
The following is a theoretical introduction to concurrency in general and as it pertains to cocotb.
Feel free to skip this section if you are already familiar with concurrency and just want to get to the practical details of how to use it in cocotb.

What is concurrency?
====================

> Concurrency is best defined as "When multiple routines can start executing simultaneously."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concurrency is best defined as "When multiple routines can start executing simultaneously."

```
Let this definition stand out a bit more.

Symmetric tasks run independently from each other and cannot block each other.
They control their own lifetime.

An example of this would be a task which spins forever in a ``while True: ...`` loop,
waiting for a specific error condition to occur,
while the rest of the test is running.

Structured Concurrency
----------------------

Concurrency is hard to get right, so providing tools to prevent common mistakes is important.
cocotb follows the lead of other leading concurrency frameworks such as `trio <https://trio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ to provide what is called "structured concurrency."
The primary goal is to make the lifetimes of concurrent tasks easier to manage and reason about.
This prevents the common mistake of "leaking" tasks, where concurrent tasks are still running in the background when they shouldn't be.
Structured concurrency provides these guarantees lexically, so a reader can easily see the lifetime of a concurrent task just by looking at the code.

Compatibility with other concurrency frameworks
-----------------------------------------------

There are many other concurrency frameworks available in Python;

> `trio <https://trio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, `asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_, and `curio <https://curio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ are the most popular ones.

Reviewer: The curio project is now archived on GitHub, so maybe not perfect for this list.

> `trio <https://trio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, `asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_, and `curio <https://curio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ are the most popular ones.

Author: ```suggestion
`asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_ and `trio <https://trio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ are the most popular ones.
```

Likewise, other concurrency frameworks have their own equivalents to tasks and triggers that are coupled to their own event loops.

You cannot use other concurrency frameworks' APIs or objects in a cocotb test,
nor can you use cocotb's tasks and triggers in other concurrency frameworks.

**************************
:func:`!cocotb.start_soon`
**************************

A typical concurrency use case in cocotb is to run a task "in the background" or "fire-and-forget,"
meaning that you want to start a task that runs concurrently and independently from the rest of the test
and let it decide on its own when to stop running (if ever) without any intervention from the rest of the test.
Examples of this include:

* The main execution thread of a Driver or Monitor.
* A concurrent assertion checker.

cocotb provides :func:`cocotb.start_soon` for this purpose.
This function takes a :term:`python:coroutine`,
wraps it into a :class:`~cocotb.task.Task`,
and runs that task concurrently and independently from the rest of the test.
The :class:`!Task` object is then returned to the caller.

.. note::

>    The reason it is called "``start_soon``" is that the coroutine is scheduled to start running;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The reason it is called "``start_soon``" is that the coroutine is only *scheduled* to start running;
```
?

This is not a problem as long as the task yields control to allow other tasks to run.
It accomplishes this by ``await``\ ing the rising edge of the clock in each iteration of the loop.

Also notice we are not waiting for the task to end anywhere in our test.
We start it and forget about it.

Next, let's make a Driver that drives random data into an AXI-Stream-like interface continuously, as long as the ``ready`` signal is asserted.
The Driver's main execution thread (``MyDriver._run``) is started with :func:`!cocotb.start_soon`.

.. code-block:: python

    class MyDriver:
        def __init__(self, intf):
            self._intf = intf
            self._task = None

        async def _run(self):
            while True:
                self._intf.valid = 0
                self._intf.data = 0
                await RisingEdge(self._intf.clk)
                if self._intf.ready.value == 1:
                    self._intf.valid = 1
                    self._intf.data = random.randint(0, 255)

        def start(self):
            self._task = cocotb.start_soon(self._run())

Note that the :func:`!cocotb.start_soon` function returns the :class:`!Task` object that it creates.

> We save that in the ``self._task`` attribute of our Driver and will use that in the next step to stop the Driver's execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We save that in the ``self._task`` attribute of our Driver and will use that in a later section of this document to stop the Driver's execution.
```

Why :class:`!Task`\ s?
----------------------

Python coroutines only support being :keyword:`await`\ ed,
which blocks the current task until the coroutine finishes and results in the coroutine's return value.
This is a problem when we want to run multiple coroutines concurrently,
because we don't want to block the current task until the other coroutine finishes.
:class:`!Task`\ s solve this problem while also adding some additional features on top of regular coroutines, including:

* Checking the status of a Task.
* Getting the result of a Task.
* Stopping a Task's execution.

Using :class:`!Task`\ s
-----------------------

Just like regular Python coroutines, :keyword:`!await`\ ing a :class:`!Task` will block the current task until the task finishes and results in the Task's return value.
We can check whether a task has completed for *any* reason by calling the :meth:`~cocotb.task.Task.done` method.
We can get the result of a task with the :meth:`~cocotb.task.Task.result` method;
however, this will raise an exception if the task is not done yet, if the task raised an exception during its execution, or was cancelled.

.. code-block:: python

    async def my_coroutine():

>         await Timer(10, units="ns")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        await Timer(10, unit="ns")
```

        return 42

    @cocotb.test()
    async def my_test(dut):
        task = cocotb.start_soon(my_coroutine())

        # Check if the task is still running.
        assert not task.done()

        # Wait for the task to finish and get its result.
        result = await task
        assert result == 42

        # The task is now done.
        assert task.done()

>         # We can await it again, unlike Python coroutines,

Reviewer: Maybe mention why one would do that, or emphasize more that it's just not an error?

Author: Mentioned when this happens.

        # which will finish immediately if the task is already done.
        await task

        # Now that it's done, we can get the result without awaiting it.
        assert task.result() == 42

Handling Exceptions
-------------------

Just like regular Python coroutines, :class:`!Task`\ s can raise exceptions.
If an exception is raised in a :class:`!Task`, that exception is stored in the task and can be retrieved with the :meth:`~cocotb.task.Task.exception` method.
If you :keyword:`await` a task that has an exception, or call its :meth:`!result` method, that exception will be re-raised.

.. code-block:: python

    async def my_coroutine():

>         await Timer(10, units="ns")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        await Timer(10, unit="ns")
```

        task = cocotb.start_soon(my_coroutine())

        # Wait for the task to finish and catch the exception.
        try:
            await task
        except ValueError as e:
            assert str(e) == "Something went wrong!"

        # The task is now done.
        assert task.done()

        # We can get the exception without awaiting it.
        assert isinstance(task.exception(), ValueError)

Cancellation and clean-up
-------------------------

:class:`!Task`\ s can also be cancelled.
This is done by calling the :meth:`~cocotb.task.Task.cancel` method on the task you want to cancel.
However, cancelling a task does not necessarily stop its execution immediately; the cancellation is *scheduled*.
This is because when you cancel a Task, a :exc:`~asyncio.CancelledError` exception is raised inside the Task.
We are rescheduling the task to run with that exception raised.
That :exc:`!CancelledError` exception will become the Task's result.

One final note is that calling :meth:`!result` or :meth:`!exception` on a cancelled task will raise that same :class:`~asyncio.CancelledError` exception.

.. code-block:: python

    async def my_coroutine():
        while True:

>             await Timer(10, units="ns")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            await Timer(10, unit="ns")
```

    @cocotb.test()
    async def my_test(dut):
        task = cocotb.start_soon(my_coroutine())

        # Cancel the task after 50 ns.

>         await Timer(50, units="ns")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        await Timer(50, unit="ns")
```

        task.cancel()

        try:
            await task
        except asyncio.CancelledError:
            print("Task was cancelled!")

Now we can add some more functionality to our Driver example by adding a ``MyDriver.stop`` method that cancels the Driver's main task to stop the Driver's execution.

> And also taking advantage of the fact that cancellation raises a :exc:`!CancelledError` exception to clean up the interface when the Driver is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also taking advantage of the fact that cancellation raises a :exc:`!CancelledError` exception to clean up the interface when the Driver is stopped.
```

:func:`!gather` returns a list of results corresponding to each of the :term:`!awaitable objects <awaitable>` passed in,
while :func:`!select` returns a tuple of the result of the first awaitable to return and the index in the argument list it corresponds to.

This is accomplished by creating an "internal waiter Task" that :keyword:`await`\ s each of the :term:`!awaitable objects <awaitable>`.
These functions provide value by guaranteeing that no internal waiter task will be left running unintentionally after they finish.
If any of the :term:`!awaitable objects <awaitable>` raise an exception, that exception is propagated to the caller of :func:`!gather` or :func:`!select`.
After an exception is raised, all unfinished internal waiter :class:`!Task`\ s are cancelled.
Likewise, as soon as the first awaitable in a :func:`!select` returns, all unfinished internal waiter :class:`!Task`\ s are cancelled.
These guarantees are what is meant by "structured concurrency."

These two functions compose with each other easily to create more complex waiting conditions.

.. code-block:: python

    @cocotb.test()
    async def my_test(arbitrator):

>         ... # set up test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ...  # set up test
```

        # 10k transactions on each sequencer running simultaneously
        await gather(
            sequencer_a.run(10000),
            sequencer_b.run(10000),
        )

        res, i = await select(
            # Wait for scoreboard and the design to quiesce
            gather(
                scoreboard.wait_for_quiescence(),
                RisingEdge(dut.empty),
            ),
            # Timeout after 100 us

>             Timer(100, units="us"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Timer(100, unit="us"),
```

        )
        if i == 0:
            print("Design quiesced!")
        else:
            raise TimeoutError("Design did not quiesce within 100 us!")

>         ... # check results of the test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ...  # check results of the test
```

When control reaches the end of the context block
the :class:`!TaskManager` blocks the encompassing :class:`!Task` until all child :class:`!Task`\ s complete.

.. code-block:: python

    from cocotb.triggers import TaskManager

    # Drive two interfaces concurrently until both complete.

    async with TaskManager() as tm:

        @tm.fork
        async def drive_interface1(): ...

        @tm.fork
        async def drive_interface2(): ...

    # Control returns here when all drive Tasks have completed

In addition to the :deco:`!fork` method for starting :term:`coroutine functions <coroutine function>` concurrently,
:meth:`~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.start_soon` can be used for :keyword:`!await`\ ing arbitrary :term:`awaitable`\ s concurrently.

.. code-block:: python

    # Wait for operation to complete or timeout after 1 us

    async with TaskManager() as tm:
        tm.start_soon(RisingEdge(cocotb.top.operation_complete))

        @tm.fork
        async def watchdog():
            await Timer(1, "us")
            raise TimeoutError("Operation did not complete in time")

Inspecting Child task Results

> -----------------------------

Reviewer: All these subheadings are not rendering at all in HTML, but only in some parts of this page.

Author: I fixed it. There was an inconsistent use of heading styles.

> -----------------------------

Author: ```suggestion
Inspecting Child Task Results
-----------------------------
```

You can inspect the result of child tasks by storing the :class:`!Task` objects returned by the :meth:`!start_soon` method.
When decorating a :term:`coroutine function` with :deco:`!fork`,
the name of the function will become the returned :class:`!Task` object.

.. code-block:: python

    async with TaskManager() as tm:
        task1 = tm.start_soon(RisingEdge(cocotb.top.signal_a))

        # task2 will become the task object after wrapping the coroutine function with @fork
        @tm.fork
        async def task2():
            return 42

    assert task1.done()
    assert task1.result() is RisingEdge(cocotb.top.signal_a)

    assert task2.done()
    assert task2.result() == 42

.. note::
    After exiting the context block and the :class:`!TaskManager` has begun finishing,

>     no further calls to :meth:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.start_soon` or :deco:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.fork` are permitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    no further calls to :meth:`!start_soon` or :deco:`!fork` are permitted.
```
Trying to fix rendering problem.

    Attempting to do so will raise a :exc:`RuntimeError`.

Handling Exceptions and *continue_on_error*

> -------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handling Exceptions and ``continue_on_error``
---------------------------------------------
```

:class:`!TaskManager` gracefully handles exceptions raised in child :class:`!Task`\ s or in the context block itself.
It ensures that no child :class:`!Task` is left running unintentionally by the time the context block exits.

> The behavior of :class:`!TaskManager` when a child :class:`!Task` raises an exception is controlled by the *continue_on_error* parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of :class:`!TaskManager` when a child :class:`!Task` raises an exception is controlled by the ``continue_on_error`` parameter.
```

The constructor for :class:`!TaskManager` accepts an optional parameter *default_continue_on_error* which is used as the default for all child tasks;
it defaults to ``False``.

> The :class:`!TaskManager`-wide default can be overridden on a per-Task basis using the *continue_on_error* parameter to the :deco:`!fork` or :meth:`!start_soon` methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :class:`!TaskManager`-wide default can be overridden on a per-Task basis using the ``continue_on_error`` parameter to the :deco:`!fork` or :meth:`!start_soon` methods.
```

.. code-block:: python

    async with TaskManager(default_continue_on_error=True) as tm:

        @tm.fork(continue_on_error=False)
        async def task1(): ...

        tm.start_soon(some_coroutine(), continue_on_error=True)

If a child :class:`!Task` raises an exception,
one of two behaviors will occur depending on the value of *continue_on_error* for that Task.
If the *continue_on_error* parameter is ``False``, all other child :class:`!Task`\ s are cancelled and the :class:`!TaskManager` will begin shutting down.

> If the *continue_on_error* parameter is ``True``, the exception is captured and other child :class:`!Task`\ s are allowed to continue running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one of two behaviors will occur depending on the value of ``continue_on_error`` for that Task.
If the ``continue_on_error`` parameter is ``False``, all other child :class:`!Task`\ s are cancelled and the :class:`!TaskManager` will begin shutting down.
If the ``continue_on_error`` parameter is ``True``, the exception is captured and other child :class:`!Task`\ s are allowed to continue running.
```

or a :exc:`BaseExceptionGroup`, if at least one of the exceptions is a :exc:`BaseException`,
and raised in the enclosing scope.

You can catch the :exc:`!ExceptionGroup` to handle errors from child :class:`!Task`\ s
by either catching the :exc:`!ExceptionGroup` as you would typically;
or, if you are running Python 3.11 or later,
using the new `except* <https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#except-star>`_ syntax
to catch specific exception types from the group.
This new syntax will run the except clause for each matching exception in the group.

.. code-block:: python

    try:
        async with TaskManager(default_continue_on_error=True) as tm:

            @tm.fork
            async def task1():
                ...
                raise ValueError("An error occurred in task1")

            @tm.fork
            async def task2():
                ...
                raise ValueError("An error occurred in task2")

    except* ValueError as e:
        # This will print both ValueErrors from task1 and task2
        cocotb.log.info(f"Caught ValueError from TaskManager: {e}")

.. note::
    After a :class:`!Task` fails and the :class:`!TaskManager` begins cancelling,

>     no further calls to :meth:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.start_soon` or :deco:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.fork` are permitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    no further calls to :meth:`!start_soon` or :deco:`!fork` are permitted.
```
Trying to fix rendering problem.

>     no further calls to :meth:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.start_soon` or :deco:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.fork` are permitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    no further calls to :meth:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.start_soon` or :deco:`!~cocotb.triggers.TaskManager.fork` are permitted.
    Attempting to do so will raise a :exc:`RuntimeError`.
```
?

Failures Within the Context Block
---------------------------------

You are permitted to add any :keyword:`await` statement to the body of the context block.
This means that it is possible for child tasks to start running, and then end with an exception, before the context block has finished.
In this case, a :exc:`~asyncio.CancelledError` will be raised from the current :keyword:`!await` expression in the context block,
allowing the user to perform any necessary cleanup.
This :exc:`!CancelledError` will be squashed when the context block exits,
and :class:`!TaskManager` continues shutting down as it normally would.

.. code-block:: python

    async with TaskManager() as tm:

        @tm.fork
        async def task1():
            raise ValueError("An error occurred in task1")

        try:

>             await Timer(10)  # During this await, task1 will fail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            await Timer(10, unit="ns")  # During this await, task1 will fail
```

            ...
            raise RuntimeError("An error occurred in outer_task")

        async with TaskManager() as tm_inner:

            # This inner task will be cancelled when outer_task fails
            @tm_inner.fork
            async def another_task(): ...

    assert outer_task.exception() is RuntimeError
    assert another_task.cancelled()

.. note::
    Prefer using :func:`!gather` and :func:`!select` when possible as they are more readable for the cases they can cover.

********************************************
Synchronization and Inter-Task Communication
********************************************

What we've covered in the past few sections mostly deals with asymmetric concurrency:
parent tasks spawning multiple independent child tasks and waiting for them to finish.
However, it is common for multiple independent :term:`!tasks` to need to communicate or coordinate with each other.
For example:

* A Driver running concurrently needs stimulus that's generated by another task or the test.
* Multiple tasks need to share access to a shared resource like a register bus.
* The test needs to know when a stimulus generator has finished or a scoreboard has quiesced.

> cocotb provides several APIs for inter-task communication and synchronization, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cocotb provides several APIs for inter-task communication and synchronization, including:

```
Trying to fix rendering problem.

and put the Event back into the "unset" state with :meth:`.Event.clear`.

.. code-block:: python

    from cocotb.triggers import Event, with_timeout

    class Checker:
        """Checks expected vs actual in order of arrival. Assumes expecteds arrive before actuals."""

        def __init__(self):
            self._quiesced = Event()
            self._expected_queue = []

        def add_expected(self, expected):
            self._expected_queue.append(expected)
            self._quiesced.clear()  # Not quiesced if there's an expected waiting to be checked.

        def add_actual(self, actual):
            expected = self._expected_queue.pop(0)
            assert actual == expected
            if not self._expected_queue:
                self._quiesced.set()  # Quiesced if there are no more expecteds waiting to be checked.

    @cocotb.test
    async def my_test(dut):
        checker = Checker()

        ...  # set up drivers and run stimulus

        # Wait for all expecteds to be checked.
        await with_timeout(
                checker._quiesced.wait(),
                timeout_time=100,
                timeout_unit="us",
        )

:class:`!Queue`
---------------

> A :class:`~cocotb.queue.Queue` is a deque with built-in synchronization,

Reviewer: "deque" might need an explanation.

somewhat similar to a Mailbox in UVM,
and very similar to :class:`asyncio.Queue` in the Python standard library.
It supports multiple producers and consumers,
and allows producers and consumers to wait for items to be added or removed from the queue as necessary.

There are two interfaces to a :class:`!Queue`, a blocking interface with :meth:`~cocotb.queue.Queue.put` and :meth:`~cocotb.queue.Queue.get`,
and a non-blocking interface with :meth:`~cocotb.queue.Queue.put_nowait` and :meth:`~cocotb.queue.Queue.get_nowait`.

Each :class:`!Queue` has a maximum size, which is infinite by default.

> If a producer tries to add an item to a full queue, it will block until there is space in the queue or raise an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a producer tries to add an item to a full queue, it will block until there is space in the queue (:func:`!put`) or raise an exception  (:func:`!put_nowait`).
```

> If a consumer tries to remove an item from an empty queue, it will block until there is an item in the queue or raise an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a consumer tries to remove an item from an empty queue, it will block until there is an item in the queue (:func:`!get`) or raise an exception  (:func:`!get_nowait`).
```

                await RisingEdge(self._intf.clk)
                self._intf.request = RequestType.IDLE
                while self._intf.complete.value != 1:
                    await RisingEdge(self._intf.clk)
                return self._intf.data.value

            # Lock automatically released.

        async def write(self, addr, data):
            # Acquire the lock.
            async with self._lock:

                # Perform the write transaction on the interface.
                self._intf.addr = addr
                self._intf.data = data
                self._intf.request = RequestType.WRITE
                await RisingEdge(self._intf.clk)
                self._intf.request = RequestType.IDLE
                while self._intf.complete.value != 1:
                    await RisingEdge(self._intf.clk)

            # Lock automatically released.

****************
Async generators
****************

One final coroutine feature that Python provides that is worth mentioning is the :term:`async generator`.
They are conceptually similar to regular Python generators,
and use the same :keyword:`yield` syntax to send values back to the caller,

> but they also support :keyword:`await`\ ing in their body like regular Py thon :term:`coroutines <python:coroutine>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but they also support :keyword:`await`\ ing in their body like regular Python :term:`coroutines <python:coroutine>`.
```

> Iteration over :term:`!async generators <async generator>` is done with :keyword:`async for`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iteration over :term:`!async generators` is done with :keyword:`async for`:
```
Trying to fix rendering problem.
